## Tezio Wallet: An Open-Source Arduino-Compatible Tezos Hardware Wallet

[Link to project on Github.]([https://github.com/prof-groff/tezio/tree/main/arduino/Tezio](https://github.com/prof-groff/tezio/tree/main/arduino))

To ensure robust growth without diminishing the decentralization of the Tezos network, users must have tools to confidently and securely take self-custody of their blockchain assets. Hardware wallets are such a tool. The purpose of this project is to develop an Arduino compatible hardware wallet for the Tezos blockchain. 

### Roadmap

  - (Complete) Develop Arduino-compatible C++ cryptographic and encoding/decoding tools for Tezio Wallet based on the Ed25519 elliptic curve. [Link](https://github.com/prof-groff/tezio/tree/main/arduino/Tezio). 
  - Add support for the Secp256k1 curve. 
  - Develop a communication layer so messages generated by a Wallet on a desktop computer can be signed by an USB-connected Arduino running Tezio Wallet.
  - Develop C++ cryptographic and encoding/decoding tools for Tezio Wallet based on the NIST P256 elliptic curve and take advantage of the hardware acceleration and secure element key storage offered by Arduino boards with a Microchip ECC508 or ECC608 cryptographic coprocessor. 
  - (Future) Design a custom Arduino compatible board with a more advanced cryptographic coprossor allowing secure element storage of keys and hardware acceleration of Ed25519 curve calculations and cryptographic algorithms such as SHA512. 


## About Arduino

[Arduino](http://arduino.cc) Arduino is an ecosystem of open-source hardware and software tools for microcontroller-based electronics. It is popular among so-called “makers”, who have a technology-centric do-it-yourself (DIY) culture. Makers celebrate entrepreneurship, the capacity of individuals to create and innovate, and the ability of a community of like-minded developers to facilitate this process. An Arduino-capability hardware wallet will benefit the Tezos blockchain by enabling this community to more easily use Tezos and contribute to Tezos development. 


## About Cryptoprocessors

Using integrated circuits like the Microchip ECC508 and ECC608 cryptoprocessor chips, IoT devices can securely participate in networks using eliptic curve digital signatures algorithms and Diffie Hellman key exchange without exposing private keys. Private keys are stored in hardware and are unhackable. Preliminary development of Tezio software is being done on Arduino Nano 33 IoT and Arduino WiFi 1010 devices, which use the ECC608A and ECC508, respectively. 

[Secure Cryptoprocessors on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_cryptoprocessor)
